classes getting up going to class drill and so
forth when did well it started about 6 30 in the
morning when you're waking up by the whistle jock
blow in the whistle and get up and get dressed and go
out march to chow and we did that we marched chow
morning noon at night when i was here and uh go chow
are you gonna come back Take care of your room
because you're always subject to being
inspected, which was a good habit to get into. All
those things are habits that you get into in life.
And if you're messy and sloppy with your room, you
tend to be that way. You took care of that and you
went on to class. Class, everybody walked to
class.
It was always, sometimes it was difficult to get
from one spot to the other on this campus because it
is a large campus. I recall having a PE class at G.
Riley White and then the next hour having a
chemistry class and the chemistry class was
almost on the other side of the campus. And it was
always difficult to get from there to the other
point. But it was a pleasant deal. You knew so many
of the students. spoke to your students, fellow
students. At one time, we started having a lot of
civilian students who were transfers in or who did
not get into the Corps or whatever. But you still
got to know them. And by you, not as well as you did
with the kids in the Corps, but you still certainly
became more acquainted than I think they're
existing now because primary science. And we had
some great professors.
I say to folks, they don't have professors. They
had nicknames. Professors had nicknames.
Please, please, we want those nicknames. Oh, we
had. And if you know why they were nicknamed what
they were. Oh, yes. Well, we had Ivy League Taylor,
because he graduated from the Ivy League. He was
always tagging the Ivy Leagues. And he always
dressed like, he always had the tweed jacket with
the elbow patches and the pipe and the whole bit,
you know, the. He looked the part, he acted the
part, but he was a good professor. We had Blue Book
Benton, because you used to take these poli-sci
and history exams in the Blue Books. Well, you
better take more than one if you take his exams. We
had a guy named C.S. Hampton. That was the initials
for you. He was a soil science professor, and I will
forget the first time I had one of his quizzes.
comes in and delivers the quizzes to the class and
it's in a little box and pulls the papers out of the
box and on top of the box are all these feathers and
he goes and blows the feathers off and says just
want you all to know that I do earn my nickname and
passed out the quiz and I'll tell you he earned his
nickname it was a chicken quiz it was tough it was a
tough course we had uh Screamin' Al Nelson. He
would get excited about the deal. He just didn't
scream it up, his voice. His antics were always on
campus. Everybody talked about it. Others, you
know, they were characters. Math? Math? I
don't... I had a farm. So you didn't have... square
root or cube root? No, I didn't have a square root or
cube root. Chemistry? Biology? Chemistry? Oh, I
had Dr. Sweet. We called him Dr. Tweet. Dr. Tweet
had a very significant hearing deficiency. So as a
result of the effect of his speech, and his name was
Sweet, but he pronounced it Tweet. And in a large
lecture class, like biology was, I remember one
day during class, he was talking about RNA and DNA
and all sorts of stuff that was rolling around my
mind and I wasn't quite grasping. Raised my hand,
he asked me if there was any question, raised my
hand and I said, Dr. Sweet, would you, and I went
into my question and he says, when I got through
with it, he looked at me and he says, yes, that's
right, and went right on with the lecture. I said,
why bother, you know. We had, uh, Dr. Smith, the
geology department, that if you went to sleep in
his class, you'd get ready because a racer or a
piece of chalk was coming your way. And he had a
pretty good arm, too. There were just a lot of
professors that, I was calling Pat Freddie Smith,
so there was Fred Smith, Pat Freddie. But they
really had a lot of characters, but they were
professors. that I felt really didn't care about
the students. And I never found a professor yet
that if I was having some difficulty with the
subject that I went to, they wouldn't do
everything they could to be helpful. What about
advisors, staff members that you remember? Oh,
some of the folks that were around then are still
around. I remember that I was I was head yell leader
my senior year, and Malin Southern was the faculty
advisor for that. What was his nickname? The
Slink. Used to call him the Slink because he'd go
slinking around the dorms trying to catch boats,
you know, doing improper things. The Wedge?
I don't remember that. Maybe that was different,
because the simplest of two would own the mail.
That was what happened. It was the Wedge. All
right. Were there other key corps staff people?
Oh, yes. Of course, you had the folks in the trigon,
but I changed out from town to town.
I remember one guy in particular who was Captain
Salamosi. They called him the White Russian. And
he was just a very intense sort of a fellow, a little
bit in general, Salamosi. And a great guy. But I
believe he was the son Russian immigrants, as a
matter of fact, is why I call him quite Russian.
Great guy, really sharp guy, but he was an intense
officer. You started a while ago. Describe Mr.
Rutter and your impression and your evaluation of
him. General Rutter, when you were an
underclassman and your only involvement was
maybe another graduation or commissioning
ceremony and having President Rutter give his
speech, he was not a great speech giver. He could
put you to sleep pretty quickly in the way he gave a
speech. And so you kind of had an impression
sometimes of an old, doddery old guy, you know,
sort of a deal. But when you got to be a student
leader, when you came into contact with the
president, your opinion changed very quickly. My
impression was the first time I met with him, I was
on staff my junior year, and I was a class officer,
things of this nature. It may have been, I was an RV,
too. I don't know what it was, but anyway, he had me.
And we started talking about the university and
its role and our function as leaders and things of
this nature. It wasn't one of these written
speeches. This was off-the-cuff General Ruddard
talking to the troops. And he got a different
impression. And later on, I was head-yellied at my
senior year. And I was listening to some other
things. And so you ended up with a lot more personal
meetings then. And you've got to have the point. If
you were to open your mouth and say something at the
meeting with the general, you better know what
you're talking about and be able to back it up,
because he did. And he'd
jam your little thing right up your, down your
throat if you didn't have your stuff together. And
I did have, with my respect, just went up many, many
fold of General Rutter. There is one story of
General Rutter, though, that not many people get
chewed up and spit out like I did one day by General
Rutter. My senior year, as I said, I was head
Yeliger, and we had a young man who was selected as a
junior Yeliger who was a civilian student. He's
now a candidate for governor, Gary Marlowe. And
General Rutter called me into his office that
spring before school was let out. And he said,
Bill, you're going to be a Yale leader. You've got
this young man, a civilian student. And that's the
most visible position there is on this campus. And
he said, I expect you to make sure that nothing
happens that would bring disgrace upon this
university, upon Yale leaders, you, me. Anybody
in any shape or fashion, you understand that? I
said, yes sir, I sure do, General. You got your
words from the General. You knew what they were,
you know. Well, Gary wore a belt to the first Yale
practice that had the junior and senior from the
Corps on it. I didn't know what he had. I didn't
care, you know. But some of the junior members took
offense at that next Yale practice. They had the
freshman jump in and they took his belt off of him
and the whole bit. Anyway, I held the junior class
afterwards and I chewed the rearing out and I was in
front of the family who did all this stuff. I
remember it's 0600 the next morning, I get a call
from Joe Buser, who was the general's aide. And Joe
says the general will see that 0700 is off, which
was over in the systems building. I said, yes, sir.
So I was over there. And he was in his office, and I
was outside waiting. And the secretary just got
there, and says, the general's over here. He wants
to see you. And I walked in, and I stood at attention
the whole time. It was like I was a freshman on the
walls of the court. He walked one out on me, chewing
at me. You know, I did this, and you told me to do
this. And I'm, yes, sir, no, sir, no excuse. I mean,
boy, it was. He ate on me for a little while there,
and he said, Dismissed. I said, Yes, sir. I turned
around, and I got out of there. On the way out, the
secretary said, Colonel McCoy wants to see you. He
was calling me. So I go over to Colonel McCoy, and as
I'm going in the door, Captain Salamosi said, I
want to see you when he gets through. So I go in, and
he chews on me for a while, but he wasn't near as good
a general as two of them. And then Captain Salamosi
says, If I spin it, from about 7 o'clock to 11
o'clock that day getting chewed on by everybody by
a chain of command. What had you done wrong? Oh,
nothing. I had failed to maintain control of the
situation, and I was told in no uncertain terms
that I was supposed to anticipate things like
this, and I guess I should have. I didn't think to
inspect his uniform and see those things, but
anyway, he got to keep his belt, and it never
happened again, I'll assure you that. And nothing
came of the incident. But my appreciation for the
general just went up immediately. From that point
on, I was involved in other meetings with world
leaders. General Wilson Moore came to campus one
time. And I remember how the respect that he was
held by people like that. And my pride in my
university, my pride in him as the president of the
university just just kept increasing. And I sat
down with Miss Rudder one time and told her how much
you double, your appreciation grows as time goes
on. And told her how much I appreciate Virginia.
And she said, well, you're just not the first one
who's told me that. And I said, yes, ma'am, I didn't
think so. Describe some of the jokes, pranks, good
bull that you may have known about, whether you
participate in or not. What were some of the good?
Oh. There were a lot of things that happened that
some people might consider strange or
outrageous, but we considered kind of funny. It
was, I do recall one incident. I had these friends I
graduated with, those 13 guys, really were all
innovative with the first bunch of characters,
but great guys. I do recall the first week when you
were a senior, you were back on campus. Well, you
waited to wear those boots for a long time, and so
you wear those boots wherever you go, you know,
class and everything else. And boots, by the way,
are a pain to maintain, because you're always
rubbing against something, and the polishing and
stuff is a problem. But I know one day, one of our
classmates was coming back from class, His name is
Steve Beachy. He's the director of Parks and
Recreation at the City College Station. He's the
one that's put their program on the map out there.
He's done a great job. But Beachy was coming back
from class and one of my buddies had the fish jump
Beachy. They take his clothes off of him and they
put him in a mattress cover and they drag him to a mud
hole and they hang him from one of those trees in the
mattress cover. It's in the quad there, and they
let him cure for about three or four hours until
about 10 o'clock that night. And he was a little
irritated at that. But Beachy's one of those type
of guys that you just didn't mess with because he
would get even. And Judd McNeil was the guy that did
it. We called him Big Judd. Judd was about six foot
two. He weighed about 270 pounds. He wasn't fat. He
was just big. I mean, his fingers were like twice
the size of my fingers. He was just a big man, like a
big oak tree. And every day that Beechy would see
him, he would tell him, maybe not today, maybe
tomorrow. That it's going to happen. He had him
jump here because he knew something would happen.
So one day, McNeil's coming back from class, and
his signature was not lit. So Beechy had his
freshman jump in, took every half a fish out of it,
and held it down. They stripped him, and they drove
four iron stakes in the ground, and they stretched
him out, and tied his hands and feet to these
stakes. And so he's just naked there in front of God
and everybody. This is for women, really, we're on
campus too much. And so Beech says, okay, and he had
the freshman get stuff. So they have a freshman
comes out and he has this jar of honey, he pours it
all over him, you know, spreads it around a little
bit. And the other one had a sack and it was cracked
corn. So he throws this cracked corn all over him
and stick him to that honey on his body and
everything else. And then Beech says, go get him.
So the freshman go in to Beech's room and he brings
out three chickens. that he had bought at the
hatchery down here on Finnfeather, that he had
starved in his closet for three days. And they
turned those chickens loose, and they were
pecking at corn, and McNeil was just bouncing and
jumping up and down. Oh, let me go. Get them off of
me. It was hilarious. Of course, every time they'd
peck you, they'd leave a red mark. When we got
through the beach, he suddenly says, McNeil,
don't ever mess with me again. I said, don't worry.
I won't. There were other things that happened
that were just, that were funny, that were
hilarious. But it was, I know another one that,
another one of my friends, he ended up being CO of
the outfit. He was one of the parachute club. He was
the one whose father was the commander of the
special forces. And so he was going to go airborne
and stuff and he was a sport jumper. And he always
kept his, He was repacking his chute out there. He
just took it and just threw it in the bottom of his
closet, and it was all loose and everything. And he
was also, he was a wildlife science major, so at one
point in time, he had to collect all these snakes.
And he had them in his big mayonnaise jar in his
room. It was three snakes, and there was two of them
were poisonous. One of them was not. I don't recall
what the word was. But Dick Judd, again, told him,
he said, I don't like snakes. I don't want you to
have these snakes in the dorm. I want you to get rid
of them. He said, oh, Dick Judd, I got them in this
jar. They don't even bother you, et cetera. He
said, I don't want them. Get them out. He said, I'll
keep it. So McKean goes out on a date with a lady who
had been his wife. And they're on the first floor, I
think, of Norma's house at one time. And so McKean
goes in with an empty mayonnaise jar and just holds
it and just drops it. And it crashes on the floor.
Picks up the jar of snakes and takes them and leaves
with them. And so we have a freshman waiting out in
the senior parking lot for him. when he gets back.
It's about 1.32 in the morning. He says, he's
coming in. He's coming in the dorm. So we all go out
and sit out in chairs outside of his dorm. And he
couldn't see us, but you see in the dorm, in the
window of the dorm. And so he flips the light on.
He's tired. He's sleeping. He starts getting his
clothes off. He's down to his underwear. He hasn't
seen the broken jar yet. And about the time he
finally sees the jar, He's just fixing into bed and
sees a jar. Boy, he jumps up on the bed. And his boots
hung in boot covers on the wall. So he took his
senior boots and he put them on, you know. And he's
walking around. We got him a little stick or a ruler
or something. He's trying to see if he can find
those snakes. He can't find them. So he goes in the
closet and there's his chute. You know, he's
parachuted. So he pulls one of them. He shut eggs,
parachuted, pulls and shakes. Can't find any
snakes anywhere. So he goes and wakes up the
freshman next door to, wake up everybody in the
dorm and tell me, boy, the snake's loose. By the
time Neil walks in and says, I got you, snakes, but
next time I am turning loose in your bed. The snakes
left the dorm. But that's just some of the things.
There are other things. Yeah, that is good bull.
What was the difference for you in being a
sophomore and being a freshman? There is a marked
difference. When you're a freshman, what you find
out really is that once you've learned The people
out there were there to really try to improve you
and to mold you as a group together. And you start
doing that, and you don't know how the game is
played. Then you realize they're just playing
with you. And you end up kind of liking it, and you
realize they like you, and you're liking them, on
top of the other side. But a sophomore kind of
stands at the side and doesn't participate in
anything. Nobody likes a sophomore, including
sophomores. And that was a big difference that
year. And what I did observe as my freshman year,
and those sophomores that, as a freshman,
couldn't kind of have been more than that. And I
said, which persons do I respect that are
sophomores, and which ones do I think do a good job?
And I really, that was one of the benefits that you
get to see is who could deal with you in an effective
way and in a way you respect when they're dealing
with you like sophomores have to do, and those that
don't. And I adapted that, hopefully. I think he
knows that I respect and admire him. And it gave
you, it really helped me. And then I did my job my
sophomore year, and I made grades. The
sophomore's job basically was to do his job and
kind of stay out of the way. And that's what I did,
and I ended up making grades that semester. And
that's, you position yourself your freshman year
to really understand what it's all about, and to
make certain decisions in your life,
realizations about yourself that you can make it.
You can make it academic, but it depends. Your
sophomore year is to position yourself for your
career at the college. I don't care where it is.
Your sophomore year really is the year that sets
you up for what you're going to do junior and senior
year. What was your normal practice in terms of
class attendance, class participation,
preparation, and so forth? Well, my normal deal
was, and I will tell you that one of the other
benefits I got was I did not really have study
skills and habits. I had made good grades my entire
life. I had scored well on the test. I had a
scholarship. I graduated with honors from high
school. I was always a, quote, good student and one
of the, quote, smart kids and things of this
nature. I got in here and realized there are a bunch
of times smart folks are a lot smarter than I was,
and it was not easy to do. As a matter of fact, I
recall the first test I ever took was this math
course. I made a 45-hour exam. And the thoughts
that went through my mind were, I'm going to flunk
this course. I'm going to flunk out of school. I'm
going to lose my scholarship. I'm going to
embarrass my family and friends. I'm going to get
drafted with the Army. I'm going to get sent to
Vietnam and get killed. I mean, that was my thought
process. And after that, I wrote, I've got to
buckle down, and I've got to study. And I did. And I
made not good grades that first semester, but
better than most of my classmates. in the outfit.
And then by my sophomore year, my second semester,
I learned a little more about what you had to do and
had to do. And my sophomore year, I really, I bucked
that and I made grades. I de-essed and things of
that nature. Really, really made grades, set
myself up to get on down the line, so to speak. And
that was also the time I kind of made some career
decisions about what I wanted to do. I go to law
school and things of that nature. So that was a big
difference for me. But it was one of those years
that was a successful year, but it was not a fun
year. I didn't enjoy my sophomore year much as I did
my freshman year, believe it or not, and my later
years. And I think it's kind of typical. Describe
the role of the MSC and its activities for students
in your undergraduate years. The MSC was one of
those places that was kind It was like home base. It
was a safe spot. You could go and sit out over there
with your friends and have coffee and donut and
relax. And it was there for everybody. It was the
family room of the campus, so to speak. And the
social life and all those kind of things at the
campus kind of radiated from all that. And it was
very much an important aspect of the student life
here. I got involved in it. My junior and senior
year, I was town hall staff. Well, I got into it and
enjoyed that tremendously. My roommate, my
junior year, was president of MSC, our senior
year, who was in the Sims yesterday.
And got to be with him, because he was a lot more
involved in MSC than I was, obviously, but worked
with him. stuff there. It was very much an integral
part of a student's life and it still is. And it is
that way that a lot of folks really get to get
involved in something on their campus. Through
the MSC did you ever come in contact with some
famous visitors? Oh sure. Let's see, I do remember
General Westmoreland came while I was here. Oh,
gosh, I can't remember. There was a former British
prime minister,
General McNamara, whose defense secretary came.
There were... Were you part of SCONA? No, I was not.
I wasn't part of SCONA. Describe Wayne Stark. The
gentleman.
a tall, stately
gentleman. And ever since the war, he was a person
of great character. But I had a refinement to him
that you didn't see in a lot of other folks. And I
think Jay Winstar probably was responsible for
opening so many doors for so many former students.
That's really unbelievable. Like I said, I didn't
have any problem with him at the moment, but I was
always just very much impressed with and very,
very much in confidence in all of Mr. Stark. He
would stir the pot a little bit, but he let the kids
primarily do, he might kind of direct them, kind of
push them a little bit, but whatever happened,
they did. He changed a lot of lines. What role did
Guy and Hall play in that time? Well, it was the
first moment I had with us where our freshman was
taking over to see the movie Never Been Licked,
which I thought was a pretty bad movie then. It
still is, but it was the only one about A&M. But I saw
that, and of course, that was where all the other A
lot of other performances took place, theater
performances and entertainment things, until
finally got to the point where they started having
these concerts that you had to go to right away. It
was the three of them. It was a classy building,
too, I thought. I enjoyed it. Do you remember any
religious activities on campus? No, not really. I
don't remember much religious activities on
campus. I do know that we were always encouraged Of
course, I came from a very strict religious
upbringing, East Texas Baptist family. And most
of the kids had the same kind of background. And we
were encouraged by the upper class, and I think the
administration, too, to get involved with
religious activities in the community. And I
didn't have a car, so I always walked to Northgate
to church over there. I ended up going quite a bit to
St. Mary's Catholic Church because three of my
good friends were Catholic boys, and they were a
lot more punctual about their going to religious
services than some of the Protestant boys were, so
I went with them quite a bit to church. But we did do
it on a regular basis. Were there any Jewish? Do you
remember any Jewish students? Not very many. I do
remember some. They were not a large number at all.
How were they treated? Just like everybody else.
You know, the thing is, I tell folks, when I came
down here, this thing about the content of your
character and your ability, that was true. The
first person to ever graduate from A&M in the Corps
of Cadets was a black boy. He was one of my
classmates. My Corps commander was Hector
Gutierrez, a little Mexican boy from Laredo.
Everybody was accepted for their character and
their ability. All those little things were kind
of taken away. And that was one of those marvelous
things I thought about, that experience. This
black corps graduate, how was he treated? Like all
the rest of the freshman, not very well. But none of
us were treated well. And did anybody single him
out? Uh, you know, uh, maybe so. I didn't, I wasn't
in the same outfit, but I didn't notice it, uh, if it
was. And his name is Bill Mayholmes. He's a lawyer
up in Dallas. Bill was from East Texas like I was. He
was from Lindale, Texas. He'd never gone to school
with a white person. I'd never gone to school with a
black person because those were days of
segregation in this state. And we came and we both,
uh, succeeded at A&M. based on our ability, and
that was it.
Bill, as a matter of fact, I do recall one of the
reunions, Bill came to the reunion with his wife,
who was a wife he met later after college and stuff.
And I was sitting there just kind of visiting with
her, and of course, everybody coming up, you know,
and I said, Bill, how you doing? She says, you know,
we were sitting there, You know, Bill's liked by a
lot of folks, or known by a lot of folks, because
he's a lawyer in Dallas, he's involved in a lot of
civic activities up there, a very respected
person. I said, you know, it's difficult. He said,
you guys, y'all really like Bill. I said, yeah,
because Bill's just one of the guys. I mean, you've
got to understand that. And she did, you know, but
there was a distinction between people,
treatment of Bill here and Bill's treatment, say,
in Dallas or something. But that was exactly the
way it was. I thought there were a couple other
black kids. I know there were a couple others that
they did not graduate, but they left. And they may
have had some treatment that was improper. I mean,
one guy named Thompson.
But Bill graduated, and you have to ask Bill if
there was some discrimination. And I'm sure there
probably was. But it wasn't
to the point where we recommend it. That was with
Fresh Fish Buddies, and I asked several friends
that were in his outfit, and they never remarked
back to me either.